# Title  #
Install an ad-blocker on Chrome (and derivatives) - uBlock Origin

# Summary #
uBlock Origin is a general purpose blocker for web browsers that blocks ads,
trackers, and malware sites by default. In this guide, you'll learn how to
install uBlock Origin on Chrome (and its derivatives e.g. Opera, Chromium,
Brave).

# Body #

> **Warning**: Using an ad-blocker may cause some pages to display incorrectly
> or not at all. To prevent this behaviour, we show how to disable the extension
> in such cases.

### Installation ###
Like any other add-on, install uBlock Origin by visiting the [Chrome Web
Store][1] and clicking on **Add to Chrome** (Fig. 1) and then clicking on **Add
extension** when prompted (Fig. 2).

![Fig. 1: Download uBlock Origin](../images/Chrome/ublock-add.png?raw=true)

![Fig. 2: Add uBlock Origin to
Chrome](../images/Chrome/ublock-prompt.png?raw=true)

![Fig. 3: Notification of successful
installation](../images/Chrome/ublock-notify.png?raw=true)

Upon successful installation a notification appears on the top-right corner, and
the uBlock Origin icon is added to the extension menu on your toolbar (Fig. 3).
To pin the icon on the toolbar, click the extension menu, and then click the pin
next to the uBlock Origin icon. When you visit a website, uBlock Origin
automatically blocks malicious trackers and ads, which you can check by clicking
the icon (Fig. 4).

![Fig. 4: uBlock Origin pop-up
interface](../images/Chrome/ublock-test.png?raw=true)

To disable uBlock Origin in a given website, click on the icon (Ctrl+click to
disable temporarily) and then click on the large power button (Fig. 4). Finally,
reload the page either by clicking the reload icon on uBlock Origin (Fig. 5) or
by refreshing the page in your browser.

![Fig. 5: uBlock Origin whitelist a
domain](../images/Chrome/ublock-whitelist.png?raw=true)

uBlock Origin is a powerful, highly configurable tool to block any network
request on your browser. If you are interested in more advanced usage, visit the
[official documentation page][2].

[1]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/ublock-origin/cjpalhdlnbpafiamejdnhcphjbkeiagm

[2]: https://github.com/gorhill/uBlock/wiki
