# Title #
Isolating your online activity - Firefox Multi-Account Containers

# Summary #
One way to minimize tracking and improve your online privacy is to store as few
browsing cookies as possible on your device. However, in websites such as your
email client or your note-taking web application, it's practical to have cookies
stored so that you don't have to login each time you visit. In this guide you'll
learn how to install and setup Firefox Multi-Account Containers to keep parts of
your online activity isolated from each other, thus reducing your digital
footprint.

# Body #

### Installation ###

Like any other add-on, install Firefox Multi-Account Containers by visiting the
[Mozilla Firefox Add-ons page][1] and clicking **Add to Firefox** (Fig. 1) and
then clicking on **Add** when prompted (Fig. 2).

![Fig. 1: Download Firefox Multi-Account
Containers](../images/Firefox/containers-add.png?raw=true)

![Fig. 2: Add Firefox Multi-Account Containers to
Firefox](../images/Firefox/containers-prompt.png?raw=true)


Upon successful installation a notification appears on the top-right corner, and
the Firefox Multi-Account Containers icon is added to your toolbar (Fig. 3). The
first time you click the icon you are presented with a guide to better
understand how the add-on works (Fig. 4).

![Fig. 3: Notification of successful
installation](../images/Firefox/containers-notify.png?raw=true)

![Fig. 4: Firefox Multi-Account Containers start
guide](../images/Firefox/containers-test.png?raw=true)

### Setup a container ###

You can create a container for any website, and assign a website to multiple
containers. In this section, you'll learn how to setup a container for Twitter,
but the steps are similar for other websites. First, create the container by
clicking the icon and then go to **Manage containers > New container**. Enter
the name for your container and press OK (Fig. 5).

![Fig. 5: Create a container for
Twitter](../images/Firefox/containers-twitter-create.png?raw=true)

Now, navigate to the Twitter website, click on the toolbar icon, and then click
**Always Open This Site in...** and select the container you just created (Fig.
6).

![Fig. 6: Always open Twitter links in its
container](../images/Firefox/containers-twitter-open.png?raw=true)

After you do so, Twitter links will open in its container, which you can check
by the underlined tab and the symbol in the address bar (Fig. 7).

![Fig. 7: Container
notification](../images/Firefox/containers-twitter-notification.png?raw=true)

When you are browsing in another container and navigate to a Twitter link,
you'll be automatically placed in the Twitter container. The first time this
happens, you'll be asked if you want to open the link in the designated
container (Fig. 8). To do so automatically from now on, tick the **Remember my
decision for this site** box, and then click on **Open in Twitter Container**.

![Fig. 8: Always redirect links to
container](../images/Firefox/containers-twitter-prompt.png?raw=true)

For more details on how to use Firefox Multi-Account Containers visit the
[official documentation][2].

[1]: https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/multi-account-containers/

[2]: https://blog.mozilla.org/firefox/introducing-firefox-multi-account-containers/
